added initial version of oneAPI DF doc (#1287)
oneapi-src/oneDAL: docs/source/onedal/algorithms/ensembles/decision-forest.rst

.. |t_hist| replace:: `Hist <df_t_math_hist_>`_
.. |t_input| replace:: `train_input <df_t_api_input_>`_
.. |t_result| replace:: `train_result <df_t_api_result_>`_
.. |t_op| replace:: `train(...) <df_t_api_>`_

.. |i_math| replace:: `Inference <df_i_math_>`_
.. |i_dense| replace:: `Dense <df_i_math_dense_>`_
.. |i_hist| replace:: `Hist <df_i_math_hist_>`_
.. |i_input| replace:: `infer_input <df_i_api_input_>`_
.. |i_result| replace:: `infer_result <df_i_api_result_>`_
.. |i_op| replace:: `infer(...) <df_i_api_>`_

=============== ============= ============= ======== =========== ============
 **Operation**  **Computational methods**     **Programming Interface**
--------------- --------------------------- ---------------------------------
   |t_math|        |t_dense|     |t_hist|    |t_op|   |t_input|   |t_result|
   |i_math|        |i_dense|     |i_hist|    |i_op|   |i_input|   |i_result|
=============== ============= ============= ======== =========== ============

------------------------
Mathematical formulation
------------------------

.. _df_t_math:

Training
--------
Given :math:`n` feature vectors :math:`X=\{x_1=(x_{11},\ldots,x_{1p}),\ldots,x_n=(x_{n1},\ldots,x_{np})\}` of

> size :math:`p`, their non-negative observation weights :math:`W=\{w_1,\ldots,w_n\}` and :math:`n` responses :math:`Y=\{y_1,\ldots,y_n\}` (for classification, :math:`y_i \in \{0, \ldots, \mathrm{C-1}\}`, where :math:`C` is the number of classes), the problem is to build a decision forest classification or regression model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
size :math:`p`, their non-negative observation weights :math:`W=\{w_1,\ldots,w_n\}` and :math:`n` responses :math:`Y=\{y_1,\ldots,y_n\}` (for classification, :math:`y_i \in \{0, \ldots, C-1\}`, where :math:`C` is the number of classes), the problem is to build a decision forest classification or regression model.
```

> size :math:`p`, their non-negative observation weights :math:`W=\{w_1,\ldots,w_n\}` and :math:`n` responses :math:`Y=\{y_1,\ldots,y_n\}` (for classification, :math:`y_i \in \{0, \ldots, \mathrm{C-1}\}`, where :math:`C` is the number of classes), the problem is to build a decision forest classification or regression model.

Reviewer: `for classification y_i \in ...`, what about regression? 

I'd suggest to split into two sentences and remove brackets. @outoftardis please suggest how exactly rephrase it

Author: added

> During the training stage, :math:`\mathrm{M}` independent classification or regression trees are created using the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the training stage, :math:`M` independent classification or regression trees are created using the following:
```

`\mathrm{...}` is recommended when you want to use multiple letters. For example `I_{\mathrm{reduction}}`. Without mathrm it looks like multiplication of `r e d u ...`.

Do not use `\mathrm{...}` for one letter variables.

#. New training set generated from the original one by sampling uniformly and with replacement
   (bootstrapping).
#. Impurity metric :math:`I` and impurity reduction
   :math:`I_{\mathrm{reduction}}` for splitting tree's nodes, calculated as follows:
    - Gini impurity for classification:
        - without observation weights: :math:`I(D)=1-\sum_{i=1}^{C}{p_i^2},` where :math:`p_i` is the fraction of observations in subset :math:`D` that belong to the :math:`i`-th class.
        - with observation weights: :math:`I(D)=1-\sum_{i=1}^{C}{p_i^2},` where :math:`p_i` is the weighted fraction of observations in subset :math:`D` that belong to the :math:`i`-th class,

> 	  :math:`p_i=(\sum_{d \in \{d \in D | y_{d}=i\}}w_d)/\sum_{d \in D}w_d,` and :math:`w_d` is a weight of observation :math:`d`. 

Reviewer 2: see [this suggestion](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneDAL/pull/1287/files#r538178422)

> 	  :math:`p_i=(\sum_{d \in \{d \in D | y_{d}=i\}}w_d)/\sum_{d \in D}w_d,` and :math:`w_d` is a weight of observation :math:`d`. 

Author: fixed

    - Mean-Square Error (MSE) for regression: 

> 	- without observation weights: :math:`I(D)=\frac{1}{N} \sum_{i=1}^{N}{(y_i - \bar{y})^2},` where :math:`N=|D|` and :math:`\bar{y}=frac{1}{N} \sum_{i=1}^{N}y_i`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	- without observation weights: :math:`I(D)=\frac{1}{N} \sum_{i=1}^{N}{(y_i - \bar{y})^2},` where :math:`N=|D|` and :math:`\bar{y}=\frac{1}{N} \sum_{i=1}^{N}y_i`.
```

> 	- without observation weights: :math:`I(D)=\frac{1}{N} \sum_{i=1}^{N}{(y_i - \bar{y})^2},` where :math:`N=|D|` and :math:`\bar{y}=frac{1}{N} \sum_{i=1}^{N}y_i`.

Author: fixed

> 	- with observation weights: :math:`I(D)=\frac{1}{W(D)} \sum_{i=1}^{N}w_i{(y_i - \bar{y})^2},` where :math:`N=|D|`, :math:`\bar{y}=\sum_{i=1}^{N}w_{i}y_{i},`, :math:`W(D)=\sum_{i=1}^{N}w_{i},` and :math:`w_i` is a weight of observation :math:`i`.

Reviewer 2: see [this suggestion](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneDAL/pull/1287/files#r538178422)

> 	- with observation weights: :math:`I(D)=\frac{1}{W(D)} \sum_{i=1}^{N}w_i{(y_i - \bar{y})^2},` where :math:`N=|D|`, :math:`\bar{y}=\sum_{i=1}^{N}w_{i}y_{i},`, :math:`W(D)=\sum_{i=1}^{N}w_{i},` and :math:`w_i` is a weight of observation :math:`i`.

Author: fixed

>     - Gini impurity for classification:
>         - without observation weights: :math:`I(D)=1-\sum_{i=1}^{C}{p_i^2},` where :math:`p_i` is the fraction of observations in subset :math:`D` that belong to the :math:`i`-th class.
>         - with observation weights: :math:`I(D)=1-\sum_{i=1}^{C}{p_i^2},` where :math:`p_i` is the weighted fraction of observations in subset :math:`D` that belong to the :math:`i`-th class,
> 	  :math:`p_i=(\sum_{d \in \{d \in D | y_{d}=i\}}w_d)/\sum_{d \in D}w_d,` and :math:`w_d` is a weight of observation :math:`d`. 
>     - Mean-Square Error (MSE) for regression: 
> 	- without observation weights: :math:`I(D)=\frac{1}{N} \sum_{i=1}^{N}{(y_i - \bar{y})^2},` where :math:`N=|D|` and :math:`\bar{y}=\frac{1}{N} \sum_{i=1}^{N}y_i`.
> 	- with observation weights: :math:`I(D)=\frac{1}{W(D)} \sum_{i=1}^{N}w_i{(y_i - \bar{y})^2},` where :math:`N=|D|`, :math:`\bar{y}=\sum_{i=1}^{N}w_{i}y_{i},`, :math:`W(D)=\sum_{i=1}^{N}w_{i},` and :math:`w_i` is a weight of observation :math:`i`.
>     - :math:`I_{\mathrm{reduction}}={I} - (N_{\mathrm{left}}/N_{\mathrm{parent}}*I_{left} + N_{\mathrm{right}}/N_{\mathrm{parent}}*I_{\mathrm{right}}),` where :math:`N_{\mathrm{left}}` and :math:`N_{\mathrm{right}}` are the number of observations in the node on the corresponding side of the split.

Reviewer 2: tried to addressed @rlnx's comments from above, please check indentation:

```suggestion
   - Gini impurity for classification:
     - without observation weights: :math:`I(D)=1-\sum_{i=1}^{C}{p_i^2},` where :math:`p_i` is the fraction of observations in subset :math:`D` that belong to the :math:`i`-th class.
     - with observation weights: :math:`I(D)=1-\sum_{i=1}^{C}{p_i^2},` where :math:`p_i` is the weighted fraction of observations in subset :math:`D` that belong to the :math:`i`-th class, computed as follows:
	   
       .. math:
          p_i=(\sum_{d \in \{d \in D | y_{d}=i\}}w_d)/\sum_{d \in D}w_d
          
       where :math:`w_d` is a weight of observation :math:`d`.
   - Mean-Square Error (MSE) for regression: 
	 - without observation weights: :math:`I(D)=\frac{1}{N} \sum_{i=1}^{N}{(y_i - \bar{y})^2},` where :math:`N=|D|` and :math:`\bar{y}=\frac{1}{N} \sum_{i=1}^{N}y_i`.
	 - with observation weights: :math:`I(D)=\frac{1}{W(D)} \sum_{i=1}^{N}w_i{(y_i - \bar{y})^2},` where :math:`N=|D|`, :math:`\bar{y}=\sum_{i=1}^{N}w_{i}y_{i},`, :math:`W(D)=\sum_{i=1}^{N}w_{i},` and :math:`w_i` is a weight of observation :math:`i`.
     - :math:`I_{\mathrm{reduction}}` is computed as follows:
       
       .. math:
          I_{\mathrm{reduction}}={I} - (\frac{N_{\mathrm{left}}}{N_{\mathrm{parent}}} I_{left} + \frac{N_{\mathrm{right}}}{N_{\mathrm{parent}}} I_{\mathrm{right}}) 
       
       where :math:`N_{\mathrm{left}}` and :math:`N_{\mathrm{right}}` are the number of observations in the node on the corresponding side of the split.
```

Author: added, thank you

>     - :math:`I_{\mathrm{reduction}}={I} - (N_{\mathrm{left}}/N_{\mathrm{parent}}*I_{left} + N_{\mathrm{right}}/N_{\mathrm{parent}}*I_{\mathrm{right}}),` where :math:`N_{\mathrm{left}}` and :math:`N_{\mathrm{right}}` are the number of observations in the node on the corresponding side of the split.

Reviewer 2: see [this suggestion](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneDAL/pull/1287/files#r538178422)

>     - :math:`I_{\mathrm{reduction}}={I} - (N_{\mathrm{left}}/N_{\mathrm{parent}}*I_{left} + N_{\mathrm{right}}/N_{\mathrm{parent}}*I_{\mathrm{right}}),` where :math:`N_{\mathrm{left}}` and :math:`N_{\mathrm{right}}` are the number of observations in the node on the corresponding side of the split.

Author: fixed

Due to each tree being fitted to a bootstrapped subset of observations, those that are not used to
fit a given tree are referred to as out-of-bag (OOB) observations. We can calculate OOB error as the
average prediction error on each training observation :math:`x_i`, using only the trees that did not have :math:`x_i`
in their bootstrap observations.

Mean Decrease Impurity (feature importance MDI) metric is calculated as the sum of the impurity
reduction over all the nodes that are split on that feature (over all trees), averaged by a number
of trees.

Let :math:`S=(X,Y)` be the set of observations. Given the training parameters, such as the number of trees

> in the forest (:math:`\mathrm{M}`), the fraction of observations used for the training of one tree

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the forest (:math:`M`), the fraction of observations used for the training of one tree
```

> (:math:`\mathrm{observationsPerTreeFraction}`), and the number of features to try as a possible split per

Reviewer: `observationsPerTreeFraction`. I suggest to introduce one letter to refer to `observationsPerTreeFraction`, otherwise it looks very inconsistent with the rest of math notations.

Reviewer 2: it's a good idea but I think we can postpone this changes and introduce them later

Author: fixed

node (:math:`\mathrm{featuresPerNode}`), the algorithm does the following:

> #. For each tree (:math:`1, \ldots, \mathrm{M}`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. For each tree (:math:`1, \ldots, M`):
```

#. Generate a bootstrapped set of observations with :math:`\mathrm{observationsPerTreeFraction} * |S|`
   elements in it.
#. Start with the tree whose depth is equal to :math:`0`.
#. For each leaf node in the tree:

>     - Randomly choose :math:`\mathrm{featuresPerNode}` features to be tried as possible splits.

Reviewer: `featurePerNode`, I suggest to introduce one letter to refer to `featurePerNode`, otherwise it looks very inconsistent with the rest of math notations.

Author: fixed

    - Find the best split that maximizes :math:`{I}_{\mathrm{reduction}}`.
    - Split current node into two based the best split.
#. Stop when a termination criterion is met.
#. Update OOB error metric (optional).
#. Update feature importance metric (optional).

The library supports the following termination criteria to stop growing the tree:

- Minimal number of observations in a leaf node. Node :math:`t` is not processed if the subset of
  observations is smaller than the predefined value. Splits that produce nodes with the number of
  observations smaller than that value are not allowed.
- Maximal tree depth. Node :math:`t` is not processed if its depth in the tree reaches the predefined
  maximal value.
- Impurity threshold. Node :math:`t` is not processed if its :math:`I` value is smaller than the predefined

>   minimal value defined with parameter :math:`\mathrm{impurityThreshold}`.

Reviewer: `impurityThreshold`, I suggest to introduce one letter to refer to `impurityThreshold`, otherwise it looks very inconsistent with the rest of math notations. If it's not used elsewhere, just call it impurity threshold.

Author: fixed

.. _df_t_math_dense:

Training method: *Dense*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> In "Dense" training method all possible split variants for each feature (from selected features' subset for current node) are evaluated 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In *dense* training method all possible split variants for each feature (from selected features' subset for current node) are evaluated 
```

I don't see in other algorithms/spec quotation for methods

for best split computation.

.. _df_t_math_hist:

Training method: *Hist*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> "inexact" (also called "histogram") training method. In this method we consider only some selected subset of splits for best split computation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In *hist* training method, we consider only some selected subset of splits for best split computation. 
```

@outoftardis, please suggest whether we need comma here

Reviewer 2: yes you do

This subset of splits is computed for each feature on initialization stage of the algorithm. After computing subset of splits, we substitute 
each value from initially provided data with the value of the corresponding bin. Bins are continuous intervals between selected splits.

.. _df_i_math:
.. _df_i_math_dense:
.. _df_i_math_hist:

Inference methods: *Dense* and *Hist*
-------------------------------------

> "Dense" and "Hist" inference methods performs prediction by the same way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Dense* and *hist* inference methods performs prediction by the same way:
```

> #. For classification, :math:`y_i \in \{0, \ldots, \mathrm{C-1}\}`, where :math:`C` is the number of classes,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. For classification, :math:`y_i \in \{0, \ldots, C-1\}`, where :math:`C` is the number of classes,
```

   the tree ensemble model predicts the output by selecting the response :math:`y`,
   which is voted for by the majority of the trees in the forest.

#. For regression, the tree ensemble model uses the mean of :math:`M` functions' results to predict the

>    output, i.e. :math:`\hat{y}=\frac{1}{M} \sum_{k=1}^M{f_k(x_i)}, \; f_k \in F,` where :math:`F=\{f : \mathbb{R}^p \rightarrow W, \; W \subset \mathbb{R}, \; |W|=T\}` is a set of 

Reviewer: I'd suggest to remove `F=\{f : \mathbb{R}^p \rightarrow W, \; W \subset \mathbb{R}, \; |W|=T\}`. It adds unnecessary complexity. 

`where f_k are regression tree ...` is enough.

Author: fixed

>    output, i.e. :math:`\hat{y}=\frac{1}{M} \sum_{k=1}^M{f_k(x_i)}, \; f_k \in F,` where :math:`F=\{f : \mathbb{R}^p \rightarrow W, \; W \subset \mathbb{R}, \; |W|=T\}` is a set of 
>    regression trees, :math:`W` is a set of tree leaves' scores and :math:`T` is the number of leaves in the tree.

Reviewer 2: agree with Ruslan's comment

```suggestion
   output, i.e. :math:`\hat{y}=\frac{1}{M} \sum_{k=1}^M{f_k(x_i)}, \; f_k \in F,` where :math:`f_k` are
   regression trees, :math:`W` is a set of tree leaves' scores and :math:`T` is the number of leaves in the tree.
```

Author: fixed

``oneapi/dal/algo/decision_forest.hpp`` header file.
                   
Enum classes
------------
.. onedal_enumclass:: oneapi::dal::decision_forest::v1::error_metric_mode 
.. onedal_enumclass:: oneapi::dal::decision_forest::v1::variable_importance_mode 
.. onedal_enumclass:: oneapi::dal::decision_forest::v1::infer_mode
.. onedal_enumclass:: oneapi::dal::decision_forest::v1::voting_mode
                   
Descriptor
----------
.. onedal_class:: oneapi::dal::decision_forest::detail::v1::descriptor_base
.. onedal_class:: oneapi::dal::decision_forest::v1::descriptor

Method tags
~~~~~~~~~~~
.. onedal_tags_namespace:: oneapi::dal::decision_forest::method::v1

Task tags
~~~~~~~~~
.. onedal_tags_namespace:: oneapi::dal::decision_forest::task::v1

Model
-----
.. onedal_class:: oneapi::dal::decision_forest::v1::model

.. _df_t_api:

Training :expr:`train(...)`
--------------------------------
.. _df_t_api_input:

Input
~~~~~
.. onedal_class:: oneapi::dal::decision_forest::v1::train_input

.. _df_t_api_result:

Result
~~~~~~
.. onedal_class:: oneapi::dal::decision_forest::v1::train_result

Operation
~~~~~~~~~

> .. onedal_func:: oneapi::dal::v1::train

Reviewer: Need to describe this function "manually", see https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/domains.html#directive-cpp-function

Author: added

.. _df_i_api:

Inference :expr:`infer(...)`
----------------------------
.. _df_i_api_input:

Input
~~~~~
.. onedal_class:: oneapi::dal::decision_forest::v1::infer_input

.. _df_i_api_result:

Result
~~~~~~
.. onedal_class:: oneapi::dal::decision_forest::v1::infer_result

Operation
~~~~~~~~~

> .. onedal_func:: oneapi::dal::v1::infer

Reviewer: Need to describe this function "manually"

Author: added

each value from initially provided data with the value of the corresponding bin. Bins are continuous intervals between selected splits.

.. _df_i_math:
.. _df_i_math_dense:
.. _df_i_math_hist:

Inference methods: *Dense* and *Hist*
-------------------------------------
*Dense* and *hist* inference methods performs prediction by the same way:

#. For classification, :math:`y_i \in \{0, \ldots, C-1\}`, where :math:`C` is the number of classes,
   the tree ensemble model predicts the output by selecting the response :math:`y`,
   which is voted for by the majority of the trees in the forest.

#. For regression, the tree ensemble model uses the mean of :math:`B` functions' results to predict the
   output, i.e. :math:`\hat{y}=\frac{1}{M} \sum_{k=1}^M{f_k(x_i)}, \; f_k \in F,` where :math:`f_k` are
   regression trees, :math:`W` is a set of tree leaves' scores and :math:`T` is the number of leaves in the tree.
   In other words, each tree maps an observation to the corresponding leaf's score.

---------------------
Programming Interface
---------------------

> All types and functions in this section shall be declared in the
> ``oneapi::dal::decision_forest`` namespace and be available via inclusion of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All types and functions in this section are declared in the
``oneapi::dal::decision_forest`` namespace and are available via inclusion of the
```
